README.md, before:

# ASA-Florida-Chapter---Data-Competition-2026

All the details for this competition can be found here : https://github.com/luminwin/ASASF/

Got it! Since you’re a student participating in the challenge, your GitHub repository should serve as a professional portfolio of your work. It should clearly show your methodology, how you processed the data, and how to run your code.

Here is a README.md template tailored for your submission:

📈 ASA South Florida 2026 Student Data Challenge
Graduate Prediction Track Submission
This repository contains my submission for the 2026 ASA South Florida Student Data Challenge. The goal of this challenge is to predict HDL cholesterol levels (LBDHDD_outcome) using demographic, dietary, and anthropometric data from the 2024 NHANES survey.

📂 Project Structure
Plaintext
├── data/               # Raw and processed datasets (train.csv, test.csv)
├── notebooks/          # Jupyter notebooks or R Markdown files for EDA and modeling
├── models/             # Saved model objects (e.g., .pkl, .rds)
├── src/                # Script files for data cleaning and feature engineering
├── report/             # Final 4-page PDF report
├── pred.csv            # Final predictions for the test set
└── README.md           # Project overview (this file)
🔬 Methodology
My approach focuses on leveraging the NHANES variables to build a robust predictive model. Key steps include:

Data Preprocessing: Handling missing values in dietary recall data and encoding categorical variables like race/ethnicity and marital status.

Feature Engineering: Creating interaction terms between BMI and waist circumference to better capture anthropometric trends.

Model Selection: * Baseline: Linear Regression.

Advanced: Exploring [Insert Model Type, e.g., Random Forest or Bayesian Regression] to optimize RMSE.

Validation: Utilizing 5-fold cross-validation on the training set (1,000 observations) to tune hyperparameters.

🛠️ Requirements & Installation
This project uses [R / Python]. To replicate the results, ensure you have the following installed:

Dependencies
For R: tidyverse, caret, mice

For Python: pandas, scikit-learn, numpy

Setup
Clone this repository:

Bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/ASASF-Challenge.git
Install the necessary packages and run the main analysis script.

📊 Results Summary
Validation RMSE: [Insert your best CV score here]

Top Predictors: [List 2-3 most important variables found during your analysis]

👤 Author
Giulianno

Level: Graduate Student

Interests: Data Science, Statistical Modeling, and Predictive Analytics

Commit message:

Revise README with updated methodology and author info
Updated project methodology and structure, refined data preprocessing and model selection details, and added author names.

README.md, after:

# ASA-Florida-Chapter---Data-Competition-2026

All the details for this competition can be found here : https://github.com/luminwin/ASASF/

📈 ASA South Florida 2026 Student Data Challenge
Graduate Prediction Track Submission
This repository contains my submission for the 2026 ASA South Florida Student Data Challenge. The goal of this challenge is to predict HDL cholesterol levels (LBDHDD_outcome) using demographic, dietary, and anthropometric data from the 2024 NHANES survey.

📂 Project Structure
Plaintext
├── data/               # Raw and processed datasets (train.csv, test.csv)
├── notebooks/          # Jupyter notebooks
├── src/                # Script files for data cleaning and feature engineering
├── report/             # Final 4-page PDF report
├── pred.csv            # Final predictions for the test set
└── README.md           # Project overview (this file)
🔬 Methodology
My approach focuses on leveraging the NHANES variables to build a robust predictive model. Key steps include:

Data Preprocessing: Used a more data science approach and selected the variables based on the correlation to the variables of interest.

Model Selection: * Baseline: Linear Regression.

Advanced: Exploring XGBoost and Bayesian Regression to optimize RMSE.

Validation: Utilizing 5-fold cross-validation on the training set (1,000 observations) to tune hyperparameters.


📊 Results Summary
Validation for XGBoost RMSE: 4.71
Validatoin for Bayesian Regression: 5.71

👤 Author
Giulianno Gasparato, Juhwan Park

Level: Graduate Student
